# AWS: Events


1. **List the AWS Database offerings and talk about the pros and cons of each?**


    - *Relational ----> Traditional applications, ERP, CRM, e-commerce*
    - *Key-value ----> High-traffic web apps, e-commerce systems, gaming applications*
    - *In-memory ----> Caching, session management, gaming leaderboards, geospatial applications*
    - *Document -----> Content management, catalogs, user profiles*
    - *Wide Column ----> High scale industrial apps for equipment maintenance, fleet management, and route optimization.*
    - *Graph ---->Fraud detection, social networking, recommendation engines.*
    - *Time Series ----> IoT applications, DevOps, industrial telemetry*
    - *Ledger -----> Systems of record, supply chain, registrations, banking transactions.*


2. **What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?**

      *FIFO queues have essentially the same features as standard queues, but provide the added benefits of supporting ordering and exactly-once processing. FIFO queues provide additional features that help prevent unintentional duplicates from being sent by message producers or from being received by message consumers.*

3. **How can the server be assured a message was properly received?** 

      *by getting an acknowledgement from the client*

## Vocabulary Terms

**Serverless API:** *Its is an API deployed by serverless service.*

**Triggers:** *are pieces of code that will automatically respond to any events in DynamoDB Streams. Triggers allow you to build applications that will then react to any data modification made in DynamoDB tables.*

**Dynamo vs Mongo**

  - *MongoDB is vendor agnostic, Open Source, and can be deployed anywhere. DynamoDB is only available on AWS.*
  - *DynamoDB is a fully managed AWS service, MongoDB can be self installed or fully managed with MongoDB Atlas.*
  - *DynamoDB as an integrated AWS service makes it easier to develop end to end solutions.*
  - *DynamoDB uses tables, items and attributes, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents.*
  - *DynamoDB supports limited data types and smaller item sizes; MongoDB supports more data types and has fewer size restrictions.*


## SQS and SNS Basics

***SNS (Simple Notification Service): Amazon SNS is a fast, flexible, fully managed push notification service that lets you send individual messages or to bulk messages to large numbers of recipients. Amazon SNS makes it simple and cost effective to send push notifications to mobile device users, email recipients or even send messages to other distributed services. A distributed publish-subscribe system. Messages are pushed to subscribers as and when they are sent by publishers to SNS ,SNS supports several end points such as email, sms, http end point and SQS. If you want unknown number and type of subscribers to receive messages, you need SNS. With Amazon SNS, you can send push notifications to Apple, Google, Fire OS, and Windows devices , as well as to Android devices in China with Baidu Cloud Push. You can use SNS to send SMS messages to mobile device users in the US or to email recipients worldwide. SNS is a distributed publish-subscribe system. Messages are pushed to subscribers as and when they are sent by publishers to SNS.***

***SQS (Simple Queue Service): SQS is distributed queuing system. Messages are not pushed to receivers. Receivers have to poll SQS to receive messages. Messages can’t be received by multiple receivers at the same time. Any one receiver can receive a message, process and delete it. Other receivers do not receive the same message later. Polling inherently introduces some latency in message delivery in SQS unlike SNS where messages are immediately pushed to subscribers. SQS is mainly used to decouple applications or integrate applications. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days). SNS distributes several copies of message to several subscribers. For example, lets say you want to replicate data generated by an application to several storage systems. You could use SNS and send this data to multiple subscribers, each replicating the messages it receives to different storage systems (s3, hard disk on your host, database, etc.).***