## Event Driven Architecture


**What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?** 

*The FIFO queue follows the first-in, first-out approach. It emits events in order and makes sure that no event surpasses the other. In contrast, the standard queue does not care about the order in which events are emitted. Therefore, events can be emitted in whatever order is more suitable for the server.*


**How can the server be assured a message was properly received?**

*by receiving afeedback from the clint by socket.io acknowledgment.*


**What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?**
 
 
*The Observer Design Pattern defines a one-to-many dependency between objects so that when one object changes state, all its dependents are notified and updated automatically. Encapsulate the core (or common or engine) components in a Subject abstraction and the variable (or optional or user interface) components in an Observer hierarchy. The "View" part of Model-View-Controller.*

**How do you test an event driven system?** 

*Using jest, we can mock some event emits and test against event handlers. If we receive an acknowledgment from the client, the test will pass. Otherwise, it needs fixes.*


## AWS SNS and SQS

***Amazon SNS is a fast, flexible, fully managed push notification service that lets you send individual messages or to bulk messages to large numbers of recipients. Amazon SNS makes it simple and cost effective to send push notifications to mobile device users, email recipients or even send messages to other distributed services. A distributed publish-subscribe system. Messages are pushed to subscribers as and when they are sent by publishers to SNS ,SNS supports several end points such as email, sms, http end point and SQS. If you want unknown number and type of subscribers to receive messages, you need SNS. With Amazon SNS, you can send push notifications to Apple, Google, Fire OS, and Windows devices , as well as to Android devices in China with Baidu Cloud Push. You can use SNS to send SMS messages to mobile device users in the US or to email recipients worldwide. SNS is a distributed publish-subscribe system. Messages are pushed to subscribers as and when they are sent by publishers to SNS.***

***SQS is distributed queuing system. Messages are not pushed to receivers. Receivers have to poll SQS to receive messages. Messages can’t be received by multiple receivers at the same time. Any one receiver can receive a message, process and delete it. Other receivers do not receive the same message later. Polling inherently introduces some latency in message delivery in SQS unlike SNS where messages are immediately pushed to subscribers. SQS is mainly used to decouple applications or integrate applications. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days). SNS distributes several copies of message to several subscribers. For example, lets say you want to replicate data generated by an application to several storage systems. You could use SNS and send this data to multiple subscribers, each replicating the messages it receives to different storage systems (s3, hard disk on your host, database, etc.)..***